Chapter 3: Common Vision Transformers - MobileVit Architecture (#121)
johko/computer-vision-course: chapters/en/Unit 3 - Vision Transformers/MobileVIT.mdx

# MobileVit v2 

> The previously discussed Vision Transformer architectures are quite computationally intensive and would be hard to run on mobile devices. The previous State of the Art architecture used CNNs for mobile vision tasks. However as CNNs cannot learn global representations and as a result they preform worse than transformer counterparts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previously discussed Vision Transformer architectures are computationally intensive and hard to run on mobile devices. The previous state-of-the-art architecture used CNNs for mobile vision tasks. However, as CNNs cannot learn global representations, and as a result they perform worse than their transformer counterparts.
```

> The MobileVit architectures aims to solve the required problems for a vision mobile tasks such as low-latency and a lightweight architecture while providing the advantages of transformers and CNNs. The mobileVit Architecture was developed by Apple and builds MobileNet from Google's research team. The MobileVit architecture builds upon the previous MobileNet architecture with the addition of the MobileVit Block and self-seperable attention. These two features allow for lightning fast latency, reduction of parameters, computational complexity and deployment of vision ML models on resource constrained devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MobileVit architecture aims to solve the required problems for vision mobile tasks, such as low-latency and lightweight architecture, while providing the advantages of transformers and CNNs. The mobileVit Architecture was developed by Apple and builds MobileNet from Google's research team. The MobileVit architecture builds upon the previous MobileNet architecture by adding the MobileVit Block and self-separable attention. These two features allow for lightning-fast latency, reduction of parameters, computational complexity, and deployment of vision ML models on resource-constrained devices.
```

Reviewer 2: MobileVit -> MobileViT

> # MobileVit Architecture

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## MobileVit Architecture
```

Reviewer 2: MobileVi**T**

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The architecture of MobileVit presented in the paper "MobileViT: Light-weight, General-purpose, and Mobile-friendly Vision Transformer" by Sachin Mehta and Mohammad Rastegari is as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The architecture of MobileViT presented in the paper "MobileViT: Light-weight, General-purpose, and Mobile-friendly Vision Transformer" by Sachin Mehta and Mohammad Rastegari is as follows:
```

> The architecture of MobileVit presenting in their paper "MOBILEVIT: LIGHT-WEIGHT, GENERAL-PURPOSE, AND MOBILE-FRIENDLY VISION TRANSFORMER" by Sachin Mehta and Mohammad Rastegari is as follows:

Reviewer 3: Looks amazing! just some little suggestion.
```suggestion
The architecture of MobileVit presented in the paper "MobileViT: Light-weight, General-purpose, and Mobile-friendly Vision Transformer" by Sachin Mehta and Mohammad Rastegari is as follows:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ![](MobileVit-Architecture.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![MobileVit Architecture](MobileVit-Architecture.png)
```
You can upload the image to the hf-vision organization's course-assets repository on Hugging Face Hub and give a link of that image here

Author: Thanks for the heads up!

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Some of this should look quite similar from the previous chapter. The mobileNet blocks, the n by n convolutions, downsampling, global pool and the ending linear layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of this should look similar to the previous chapter. The MobileNet blocks, nxn convolutions, downsampling, global pooling, and the final linear layer.
```

> As seen by the global pooling layer and the linear layer, the model that is shown is for classification however these same blocks introduced in this paper can be used for a variety of vision applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As seen by the global pooling layer and the linear layer, the model shown here is for classification. However, the same blocks introduced in this paper can be used for a variety of vision applications.
```

Author: Thank you for the tip I'll finish that up asap!

> This block is the crux of the model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This block is the crux of the model.
```
Which block? if you're talking about next section you can write that in that section

Author: Cool! Thanks for the feedback.

> # Mobile Vit Block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## MobileVit Block
```

Reviewer 2: MobileVit => MobileViT

> The mobileVit block aims to combine both CNN's local processing and global processing as seen in transformers. It uses a combination of convolutions and a transformer layer which allows it to capture both spatially local information and global dependencies in the data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MobileVit block combines CNN's local processing and global processing, as seen in transformers. It uses a combination of convolutions and a transformer layer, allowing it to capture spatially local information and global dependencies in the data. 
```

Reviewer 2: mobileVit => MobileViT

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> A diagram of the MobileVit Block is shown below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A diagram of the MobileViT Block is shown below:
```

> A digram of the MobileVit Block is shown below:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A diagram of the MobileVit Block is shown below:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ![](MobileVit-MobileVitBlock.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![MobileVit Block](MobileVit-MobileVitBlock.png)
```

Reviewer 2: +1 please add alt text to the images

Okay, that's a lot to take in. Let's break that down.

> - The block takes in a channeled image. Let's say for an RGB image 3 channels, so the block takes in a three channeled image. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The block takes in an image with multiple channels. Let's say for an RGB image 3 channels, so the block takes in a three channeled image. 
```

> - It then performs a N by N convolution on the channels appending them to the existing channels (LOOK OVER TERMINOLOGY)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It then performs a N by N convolution on the channels appending them to the existing channels (LOOK OVER TERMINOLOGY)
```
What is meant with (LOOK OVER TERMINOLOGY)

> - It then preforms a N by N convulsion on the channels appending them to the existing channels(LOOOK OVER TERMINOLOGY)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- It then performs a N by N convolution on the channels appending them to the existing channels (LOOK OVER TERMINOLOGY)
```

> - The block then creates a linear combination of the these channels and adds them to the existing stack of channels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The block then creates a linear combination of these channels and adds them to the existing stack of channels.
```

> - For each channels these images are unfolded into flattened patches.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- For each channel these images are unfolded into flattened patches.
```

- Then these flattened patches are passed through a transformer to project them into new patches. 
- These patches are then folded back together to create an image with d dimensions. 
- Afterwards a pointwise convolution is overlayed on the stitched image. 
- And then the stitched image is then recombined with the original RGB images.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This approach allows for a receptive field of H x W (the entire input size) while modeling non-local dependencies and local dependencies through retaining patch locational information. This can be seen in the unfolding and refolding of the patches.

> <Note>

Reviewer 2: `doc-builder` uses `<Tip>` tags, not `<Note>`

Author: Thanks for the tip!

> A receptive feild is the size of a region in an input space that affects the features of a particular layer.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A receptive feild is the size of a region in an input space that affects the features of a particular layer.
```
```suggestion
A receptive field is the size of a region in an input space that affects the features of a particular layer.
```

</Note>

> This compound approach allows MobileVit to have less parameters than traditional CNNs and even better accuracy!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This compound approach allows MobileVit to have fewer parameters than traditional CNNs and even better accuracy!
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ![](MobileVit-CNNPreformance.png)

Reviewer 2: Please add alt text

Author: On it!

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The main efficiency bottleneck in the original MobileVit architecture is the multi-head self-attention in Transformers, which requires O(k^2) time complexity with regard to the input tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main efficiency bottleneck in the original MobileVit architecture is the multi-head self-attention in Transformers, which requires O(k^2) time complexity concerning the input tokens.
```

Reviewer 2: MobileVit => MobileViT

> Multi-head self-attention also requires costly operations like batch-wise matrix multiplications which can impact latency on resource constrained devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multi-head self-attention also requires costly operations like batch-wise matrix multiplications, which can impact latency on resource-constrained devices.
```

> These same authors wrote another paper on exactly how to make attention operate faster. They've called it self-separable attention.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same authors wrote another paper on exactly how to make attention operate faster. They've called it self-separable attention.
```

Reviewer 2: The original sentence is actually correct, you can say "these same authors" :)

# Self Separable Attention

> In traditional multihead attention, the big O with respect to input tokens is quadratic (O(k^2)). Self Separable Attention introduced in this paper has big O of O(k) with regards to input tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In traditional multihead attention, the big O concerning input tokens is quadratic (O(k^2)). Self Separable Attention introduced in this paper has a complexity of O(k) concerning input tokens.
```

> In addition, the attention method does not use any batch wise matrix multiplications which helps reduce latency on resource constrained devices like mobile phones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, the attention method does not use any batch-wise matrix multiplications, which helps reduce latency on resource-constrained devices like mobile phones.
```

> Not, only that the attention method also does not use any batch wise matrix multiplications which helps reduce latency on resource constrained devices like mobile phones.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In addition, the attention method does not use any batch wise matrix multiplications which helps reduce latency on resource constrained devices like mobile phones.
```

> Which is a massive improvement!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a massive improvement!
```

> <Note>

Reviewer 2: Please replace with `<Tip>`

Author: Yep!

There have been many other forms of Attention such that complexity has ranged from O(k), O(k*sqrt(k)), O(k*log(k)).

> <br><br>

Reviewer 2: There's no need for `<br>` tags, just add a new line

> Self-Seperable Attension was also not the first paper to have O(k) complexity. In Linformer,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Self-Seperable Attention was also not the first paper to have O(k) complexity. In Linformer,
```

> <br><br>

Reviewer 2: Same. Use a new line instead of `<br>`.

Author: Oh thank you sorry for missing that.

> O(k) complexity for Attension was also achived in Linformer (ADD PAPER LINK HERE) before self seperable attention.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
O(k) complexity for Attention was also achived in Linformer (ADD PAPER LINK HERE) before self seperable attention.
```

> <br><br>

Reviewer 2: Replace `<br>` with a new line please

However, it still used costly operations like batch-wise matrix multiplications
</Note>

A comparison between the attention mechanisms in Transformer, Linformer, and MobileVit is shown below:

> ![](MobileVit-Attension.png)

Reviewer 2: The image is missing an alt text.

> Looking at the image above gives a comparison of each of the individual types of Attention between the Transformer, Linformer, and MobileVit v2 architectures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The image above gives a comparison of each of the individual types of attention between the Transformer, Linformer, and MobileVit v2 architectures.
```

Reviewer 2: MobileVit => MobileViT

> In both the the Transformer and Linformer, both of Attention computations preform two batch wise matrix multiplications.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For example in both the Transformer and Linformer architectures, both of the Attention computations preform two batch wise matrix multiplications.  
```

> For example in both the Transformer and Linformer architectures, both of the Attention computations preform two batch wise matrix multiplications.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in both the transformer and Linformer architectures, the attention computations perform two batch-wise matrix multiplications.  
```

> However in the case of self separable attention, these two batchwise multiplications are replaced by that of two separate linear computations. This allows for even further boosted inference speed. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
However in the case of self separable attention, these two batchwise multiplications are replaced by two separate linear computations. This allows for further boosted inference speed. 
```

> However in the case of self separable attention, these two batchwise multiplications are replaced by two separate linear computations. This allows for further boosted inference speed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, in the case of self-separable attention, these two batch-wise multiplications are replaced by two separate linear computations. This allows for further boosted inference speed. 
```

# Conclusion

> MobileVit blocks retain spatially local information while developing global representations, combining the strengths of Transformers and CNNs. They provide a receptive field that encompasses the entire image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MobileViT blocks retain spatially local information while developing global representations, combining the strengths of Transformers and CNNs. They provide a receptive field that encompasses the entire image.
```

> MobileVit blocks allow for the retaining spatially local information while developing global representations combining the best strengths of Transformers and CNNs together. All while providing a receptive field of the entire image.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
MobileVit blocks retain spatially local information while developing global representations, combining the strengths of Transformers and CNNs. They provide a receptive field that encompasses the entire image.
```

> The introduction of Self separable attention into this existing architecture even further boosted both accuracy and inference speed.

Reviewer 2: I see that this is also called "separable self-attention". E.g. https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.02680
Which is the correct term?

Author: Thanks for the tip. You are absolutely correct. The term is separable self-attention.

> ![](MobileVitAndInference.png)

Reviewer 2: Please add an alt text

Author: On it 🫡

> They tested different architectures on iPhone 12s showing a large jump in performance with the introduction of separable Attention as shown above!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Tests performed with different architectures on the iPhone 12s exhibited a large jump in performance with the introduction of separable Attention as shown above!
```

> Overall, the MobileVit Architecture is an extraordinarily powerful architecture for resource limited vision tasks that provides fast inference and high accuracy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Overall, the MobileViT Architecture is an extraordinarily powerful architecture for resource-limited vision tasks that provides fast inference and high accuracy.
```

# MobileViT v2 

The previously discussed Vision Transformer architectures are computationally intensive and hard to run on mobile devices. The previous state-of-the-art architecture used CNNs for mobile vision tasks. However, CNNs cannot learn global representations, and as a result they perform worse than their transformer counterparts.

> The MobileVit architecture aims to solve the required problems for vision mobile tasks, such as low-latency and a lightweight architecture, while providing the advantages of transformers and CNNs. The mobileVit Architecture was developed by Apple and builds MobileNet from Google's research team. The MobileVit architecture builds upon the previous MobileNet architecture by adding the MobileVit Block and separable self-attention. These two features allow for lightning-fast latency, reduction of parameters, computational complexity, and deployment of vision ML models on resource-constrained devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MobileVit architecture aims to solve the required problems for vision mobile tasks, such as low-latency and lightweight architecture, while providing the advantages of transformers and CNNs. The mobileVit Architecture was developed by Apple and builds MobileNet from Google's research team. The MobileVit architecture builds upon the previous MobileNet architecture by adding the MobileViT Block and separable self-attention. These two features allow for lightning-fast latency, reduction of parameters, computational complexity, and deployment of vision ML models on resource-constrained devices.
```

## MobileVit Architecture

The architecture of MobileViT presented in the paper "MobileViT: Light-weight, General-purpose, and Mobile-friendly Vision Transformer" by Sachin Mehta and Mohammad Rastegari is as follows:
![MobileViT Architecture](MobileViT-Architecture.png)

Some of this should look similar to the previous chapter. The MobileNet blocks, nxn convolutions, downsampling, global pooling, and the final linear layer.

As seen by the global pooling layer and the linear layer, the model shown here is for classification. However, the same blocks introduced in this paper can be used for a variety of vision applications.

## MobileViT Block

The MobileViT block combines CNN's local processing and global processing, as seen in transformers. It uses a combination of convolutions and a transformer layer, allowing it to capture spatially local information and global dependencies in the data. 

A diagram of the MobileViT Block is shown below:

> ![MobileViT Block](MobileViT-MobileViTBlock.png)

Author: Upload request is sent in 👍
